team/sonata_katt.md, before:

# Sonata Katt

![Sonata Katt Profile](./sonata_katt.png)

- Software Developer
- sonata.abdullh@gmail.com

## Links

- [GitHub](https://github.com/sonatata)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sonata-katt-335598124/)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/sonatakatt)
- [Website](http://sonatakatt.com/)
- [Resume](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B_k0GN496C_0dmtGeWt5YjVLOHdLczR0d296bGxOczMzSHJB/view)

## About Sonata

Sonata is an undergraduate Computer Science Student at the University of Toronto. She has experience working as a full-stack software developer using a range of web development frameworks such as .NET, Node, React, and Redux. She is Syrian Canadian. She is not named after a car.

## Strengths

- Strong Technical experience working on large projects
- Solid leadership experience developed during many successful student organization initiatives           
- Ability to give honest feedback while maintaining an inclusive environment

## Weaknesses

- Fear of public speaking
- Overly self-critical
- Can easily get distracted

Commit message:

added more details and resized image

team/sonata_katt.md, after:

# Sonata Katt

![Sonata Katt Profile](./sonata_katt.png)

- Software Developer
- sonata.abdullh@gmail.com

## Links

- [GitHub](https://github.com/sonatata)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sonata-katt-335598124/)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/sonatakatt)
- [Website](http://sonatakatt.com/)
- [Resume](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B_k0GN496C_0dmtGeWt5YjVLOHdLczR0d296bGxOczMzSHJB/view)

## About Sonata

Sonata is an undergraduate Computer Science Student at the University of Toronto. She has experience working as a full-stack software developer using a range of web development frameworks such as .NET, Node, React, and Redux. She is Syrian Canadian and is not named after a car.

## Strengths

- Strong Technical experience working on large projects
- Solid leadership experience developed during many successful student organization initiatives           
- Ability to give honest feedback while maintaining an inclusive environment

## Weaknesses

- Public speaking
- Less efficient when there is too much context switching
- Can lose focus on the goal by concentrating on less relevant details
